# NKN: a Scalable Self-Evolving and Self-Incentivized Decentralized Network

> A project aiming to rebuild the Internet that will be truly open,
  decentralized, dynamic, safe, shared and owned by the community.

[![nkn.org](img/nkn_logo.png)](https://nkn.org/)

[https://nkn.org/](https://nkn.org/)

Welcome to NKN! Watch a [2-minutes video of NKN
concept](https://youtu.be/cT29i3-ImQk) to get started.

[![NKN Introduction](img/nkn_intro_video.png)](https://youtu.be/cT29i3-ImQk)

## Table of Contents

- [Abstract](#abstract)
- [Challenges of Network Infrastructure](#challenges-of-network-infrastructure)
- [Vision](#vision)
- [Technology Foundations](#technology-foundations)
- [New Kind of Network](#new-kind-of-network)
- [Cellular Automata Powered Consensus](#cellular-automata-consensus)
- [Potential Attacks](#potential-attacks)
- [Conclusions](#conclusions)


## Abstract

NKN is a new generation of highly scalable, self-evolving and
self-incentivized blockchain network infrastructure. NKN addresses the
network decentralization and self-evolution by introducing Cellular
Automata (CA) methodology. NKN tokenizes network connectivity and data
transmission capacity by a novel and useful Proof of Work. NKN focuses
on decentralizing network resources, similar to how Bitcoin and
Ethereum decentralize computing power as well as how IPFS and Filecoin
decentralize storage. Together, they form the three pillars of the
Internet infrastructure for next generation blockchain systems. NKN
ultimately makes the network more decentralized, efficient, equalized,
robust and secure, thus enabling healthier, safer, and more open
Internet.


## Challenges of Network Infrastructure

After years of transmutation, the Internet is in danger of losing its
original vision and spirit.  Existingsolutions are not suitable for next
 generation blockchain systems due to the following reasons:

### P2P Network Limitation

First static network topology is vulnerable to faulty and malicious attack. 
Second, there is no economic self-incentivized scheme for network connectivity
 and data transmission. Finally, network scalability is widely sacrificed to
enhance controllability.

### Resource Utilization

A highly reliable, secure and diverse Internet is essential to
everyone. Yet, huge inefficiency exists in the current network when
providing global connectivity and information transmission. It's time
to rebuild the network we want, not just patch the network we have. A
fully decentralized and anonymous peer-to-peer system offers huge
potential in terms of improved efficiency, sustainability and safety
for industry and society.

### Net Neutrality

When the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approved a measure to
remove the net neutrality rules by the end of 2017, a demand of ending
our reliance on big telecommunication monopolies and building
decentralized, affordable, locally owned Internet infrastructure
becomes ever stronger. The unrestricted and private Internet access
environment is becoming unsustainable under an endless stream of
attacks and blockage, leading to selective and biased information
propagation. Without a proper incentivizing engagement scheme, it is
almost impossible to maintain a constant and secured information
propagation channel.

## Vision

NKN intends to revolutionize the entire network technology and
business. NKN wants to be the Uber or Airbnb of the trillion-dollar
communication service business, but without a central entity. NKN
aspires to free the bits, and build the Internet we always wanted.

### The Third Pillar

By blockchainizing the third and probably the last pillar of Internet
infrastructure, NKN will revolutionize the blockchain ecosystem by
innovating on the network layer, after Bitcoin and Ethereum
blockchainized computing power as well as IPFS and Filecoin
blockchainized storage. The next generation blockchains based on NKN
are capable of supporting new kind of decentralized applications
(DApp) which have much more powerful connectivity and transmission
capability. The vision of NKN is not only to revolutionize the
decentralized network layers, but also to develop core technologies
for the next generation blockchain.

### Elementary Components

NKN builds upon several innovative elementary components that are
different from existing solutions.

- Blockchainizing the remaining core building blocks of computing
  infrastructure.

- Cellular Automata powered decentralized data transmission network
  (DDTN).

- Cellular Automata driven consensus.

- Proof of Relay, A Useful Proof of Work.

- Tokenization of network connectivity and data transmission
  capability.

- Networking toolkit for fast and painless DApp development.


## Technology Foundations

NKN utilizes microscopic rules based on Cellular Automata to define
network topology, achieves self-evolution behaviors, and explores
Cellular Automata driven consensus, which is fundamentally different
from existing blockchain network layer.

As a powerful tool to study complex systems, Cellular Automaton is
closely linked to philosophical categories such as simple and complex,
micro and macro, local and global, finite and infinite, discrete and
continuous, etc.

### Cellular Automata

Cellular Automata (CA) is a state machine with a collection of nodes,
each changing its state following a local rule that only depends on
its neighbors. Each node only has a few neighbor nodes. Propagating
through local interactions, local states will eventually affect the
global behavior of CA. The desired openness of network is determined
by the homogeneity of Cellular Automata where all nodes are identical,
forming a fully decentralized P2P (peer-to-peer) network. Each node in
the NKN network is constantly updating based on its current state as
well as the states of neighbors. The neighbors of each node are also
dynamically changing so that the network topology is also dynamic
without changing its underlying infrastructure and protocols.

NKN utilizes CA to achieve efficient, decentralized, and dynamical
topology such that information and data can be transmitted efficiently
and dynamically without centralized connectivity.

### Rules as Formulas

The Cellular Automata programming formula is called "local rule",
which is an indispensable rule for next generation network of NKN and
has an important influence on the network topology. Proper choice of
local rules leads to Cellular Automata with complex but self-organized
behaviors on the boundary between stability and chaos. Rules are
essential because they are formulas to program Cellular Automata and
Automata Networks.

The NKN team believes CA-based or CA-driven systems are more natural
and organic than current approaches utilizing static and fully
connected topology. Complex systems with such a simple structure are
closer to natural systems, thus enabling self-evolution.

## New Kind of Network

NKN introduced the concept of Decentralized Data Transmission Network
(DDTN). DDTN combines multiple independent and self-organized relay
nodes to provide clients with connectivity and data transmission
capability. This coordination is decentralized and does not require
trust of any involved parties. The secure operation of NKN is achieved
through a consensus mechanism that coordinates and validates the
operations performed by each node. DDTN provides a variety of
strategies for decentralized application (DApp).

In contrast to centralized network connectivity and data transmission,
there are multiple efficient paths between nodes in DDTN, which can be
used to enhance data transmission capacity. Native tokens can
incentivize the sharing of network resources, and eventually minimize
wasted connectivity and bandwidth. Such a property is termed
"self-incentivized".

A way to prove the work while avoiding waste of resources is highly
desired. NKN proposes an alternative to the current PoW by providing a
more decentralized, dynamically evolving, self-organizing and
self-evolving network infrastructure and designing a whole new set of
consensus mechanisms. The novel PoW does not result in a waste of
resources. Instead, it is a peer-to-peer sharing mechanism at
blockchain level. Participants receive rewards by contributing more
network resources than they consume. NKN uses Proof of Relay mechanism
to guarantee network connectivity and data transmission capacity.

Cellular Automata on Networks (CAoN) is a natural extension of Cellular
 Automata that is able to model networks with non-geometric neighbor 
 connections. It is powerful when modeling networks whose topology is 
 evolving based on local rules. As the goal is to build a decentralized blockchain
  system with dynamic topology, CAoN is a natural model for the system.

## Cellular Automata Powered Consensus

NKN is designed to be a futuristic blockchain infrastructure that
requires low latency, high bandwidth, extremely high scalability and
low cost to reach consensus. These properties are crucial for future
DApps. Thus, NKN needs new consensus algorithms that could satisfy
such high requirements.

Majority Vote Cellular Automata (MVCA) is a Cellular Automata using
majority vote as updating rule to achieve consensus.

Using the mathematical framework originally developed for Ising model
in physics, we found and proved that a class of CA rules will
guarantee to reach consensus in at most O(N) iterations using only
states of sparse neighbors by an exact map from CA to zero temperature
Ising model. Some studies investigated the fault tolerance of Cellular
Automata and how to increase robustness in Cellular Automata-Based
systems. We further showed that the result is robust to random and
malicious faulty nodes and compute the threshold when desired
consensus cannot be made.

Consensus in NKN is driven by Proof of Relay (PoR), a useful Proof of
Work (PoW) where the expected rewards a node gets depend on its
network connectivity and data transmission power. Node proves its
relay workload by adding digital signature when forwarding data, which
is then accepted by the system through consensus algorithm.

PoR is not a waste of resources since the work performed in PoR
benefits the whole network by providing more transmission power. The
"mining" is redefined as contributing to the data transmission layer,
and the only way to get more rewards is providing more transmission
power. The competition between nodes in the network will eventually
drive the system towards the direction of low latency, high bandwidth
data transmission network.


## Potential Attacks

Since NKN is designed with attack prevention in mind, it is necessary
to review related attack types. Attack analysis and mitigation will be
one of the important aspects of NKN development and future work.

- Double spending attack. Double spending attack refers to the case
  where the same token is spent more than once. In classic blockchain
  systems, nodes prevent double-spending attack by consensus to
  confirm the transaction sequence.

- Sybil Attacks. Sybil attack refers to the case where malicious node
  pretends to be multiple users. Malicious miners can pretend to
  deliver more copies and get paid. Physical forwarding is done by
  creating multiple Sybil identities, but only transmitting data once.

- Denial-of-Service (DoS) Attacks. An off-line resource centric attack
  is known as a denial of service attack (DoS). For example, an
  attacker may want to target a specific account and prevent the
  account holder from posting transactions.

- Quality-of-Service (QoS) Attacks.  Some attackers want to slow down
  the system performance, potentially reducing the amount of network
  connectivity and data transfer speed.

- Eclipse Attack. An attacker controls the P2P communication network
  and manipulates a node's neighbors so that it only communicates with
  malicious nodes. The vulnerability of the network to eclipse attack
  depends on the peer sampling algorithm, and can be reduced by
  carefully choosing neighbors.

- Selfish Mining Attacks. In a selfish mining strategy, the selfish
  miners maintain two blockchains, one public and one
  private. Initially, the private blockchain is the same as the public
  blockchain. The attacker always mine on the private chain, unless
  the length of the private chain is being caught up by the public
  chain, in which case the attacker publishes the private chain to get
  rewards. The attack essentially lower the threshold of 51% attack as
  it may be more efficient for other miners to mine the private chain
  than the public chain. Yet, as an economic attack, selfish mining
  attack needs to be announced in advance to attract miners.

- Fraud Attacks. Malicious miners can claim large amounts of data to
  be transmitted but efficiently generate data on-demand using
  applets. If the applet is smaller than the actual amount of relay
  data, it increases the likelihood of malicious miners getting block
  bonus.

## Conclusions

Compare to current systems, NKN blockchain platform is more suitable
for peer-to-peer data transmission and connectivity. In the meantime,
this self-incentivized model encourages more nodes to join the
network, build a flat network structure, implement multi-path routing,
and create a new generation of network transmission structure.

From the perspectives of computing infrastructure innovation, NKN will
revolutionize the blockchain ecosystem by blockchainizing the third
and probably the last pillar of Internet infrastructure, after Bitcoin
and Ethereum blockchainized computing power as well as IPFS and
Filecoin blockchainized storage. Complementing the other two pillars
of the blockchain revolution, NKN will be the next generation
decentralized network that is self-evolving, self-incentivized, and
highly scalable.

The current network has huge inefficiencies for providing universal
connectivity and access for all information and applications. It's
time to rebuild the network we really need instead of constantly
patching the networks we already own. Let's start building the future
Internet, today.
